---
layout: post
title: Fern
---

I have a fern that I water sometimes. It doesn’t have a name because I’m not sentimental like that. 

I bought the fern because it the plastic-coated bit of paper stuck in its dirt just said “fern”. 
That was the whole story, no watering schedule, no ideal climate, no Latin-labeled alcove in the great big evolutionary tree of the entire universe. 
Just “fern”. 
If you google for fern pictures, every single one you’ll find is the what I’ve got. 

I remember the moment I bought the fern like people remember the hospital their first kid was born in (I’m not even going to try and play this metaphor off as a joke; moreover, I’m going to keep using it because at least my fern produces oxygen, what the fuck has any kid ever done besides breath it all in?). 
Tagawa Gardens: the smell of soil and post-menopause perfume stewing together in noonday sun with a clingfilm of humidity. 
Nice place, really. 

I adopted a dog a year later – I couldn’t tell you the name of the shelter without checking what’s around my old address. 
And in a year, I won’t remember the address.

I like the fern because it complains quietly. A yellow leaf from too little sun; crumpled brown leaves like old paper from too much sun. I don’t know how it’s survived me this long. The first year, I remembered to mist it once a month at most. Sometimes I’d leave home for some college holiday for weeks at a time: while my family stuffed me with food like a Thanksgiving turkey (like all families should), the fern sat neglected, wilting away in my window. I’d get home, see what a piece of shit I am written in fading chlorophyll, and immediately deluge the poor thing. A distant parent buying back your affection with an xbox that’s at least one generation behind the bleeding edge.

I eventually came to the earth-shattering revelation that if I didn’t start being more present in my fern’s life, I was going to miss all the big moments: the first transplant into a bigger pot... yeah, that’s about all I can think of. I’m trying to say is that in the purgatory of an absent father, my fern could have gotten hooked on fertilizer and died in a life-sentence for gunning down youth in the streets. By the time I had this thought, the fern had already outgrown its original plastic pot that I’d never cared enough to replace.

The great part about plants – in contrast to children – is that all you have to do is start watering them more. Maybe a good misting once a week. So that’s what I did. It sounds trivial but fighting against myself to form a habit for the good of another living thing was certainly not. I’m microscopically more responsible as a result. Lo and behold, the fern is sitting in my parents’ kitchen, looking greener than ever despite Colorado’s aridity. Its new pot is much roomier and, most importantly, isn’t shitty plastic. The glazed ceramic really pairs well with my fern’s skin tone, if you ask me. If this fern died, I’d cry. I know I would. 

I’ve attended relatives’ funerals and without even a hint of rain but, somehow, this plant has the power to make my eyes hail. Real, actual people in my life have left this world and I’m more concerned about —what – some dirt and leaves? I’m not some whacko that talks to my fern and leaves music playing during the day to ensure proper stimulation. I’ve killed plants (other ferns, no less) before, why does this one matter? What the fuck is wrong with me?

I’m leaving Colorado tomorrow, driving for twenty odd hours to Pittsburgh. I-70 through scenic Kansas. People wonder if hell is real; none of those people live in Kansas. I’m taking the fern with me because I can’t quite picture my life without it now. This fern that wilts after less than thirty minutes of heat and blaring sun in my car. I’m scared that this thing I’ve finally started to care for, putting little pieces of myself into won’t make the trip. It feels like the end of the world.

